Good afternoon. I am Oleg Levitsky, a professor at the Russian Economic Academy.
At the Academy, I teach MBA courses, human resources management, management of organizations, and sociology.
I am also an active HR consultant and advise many foreign and domestic companies.
The topic of our meeting today is the analysis of the variety of approaches that exist in foreign and Russian companies,
which change their sphere of activity, which change their functioning.
That is, the whole complex of the sphere of problems is associated with changes in the company,
with changes in the team in the company, with changes in the interaction of the management system.
Of course, the first question that arises in this regard is what we will understand under the organizational changes.
It should be said that despite the fact that the problem of change is a traditional problem of management
and has been analyzed and studied for about a century and a half,
nevertheless, there is a common opinion and a common approach to what change is,
what are its qualitative characteristics, what quantitative aspects are associated with it, still does not exist.
We, of course, will not go into theoretical debate about what organizational changes are,
but will pay attention to those significant characteristics that, if necessary, have practical significance
and indicate that the company has somehow changed, changed its sphere of activity,
changed its method of work, changed its methodology of providing services,
methodology of positioning on the market, changed its brand.
When we talk about organizational development, about organizational changes,
then usually we understand a certain normative strategy of retraining.
There is a company, there are employees of this company, there is a certain product that this company produces
and provides for the market, which is its competitive advantage,
which is the niche that the company occupies on the market.
Naturally, since the events that take place on the market,
since the demands of consumers, the needs of consumers, the psychology of consumers are constantly changing,
then in this regard, if the company wants to constantly be in the framework of economic development,
it must react to these changes, it must join the feedback that exists,
and, accordingly, it must change if necessary.
If the company, no matter how successful it is, stops changing,
then there is a period of stagnation, a period of stagnation,
which will inevitably end with the company losing its position and generally ceasing to exist.
The corresponding examples are all what we will look at next.
So, when we talk about organizational development,
we mean, first of all, the presence of a retraining strategy.
Organizational development is not a 7-minute process.
That is, someone wanted to change something, and we make changes.
If we are talking about organization and organizational development,
then, first of all, there is a certain planned strategy,
when there is a goal that needs to be achieved,
when there are ways to achieve this goal,
when there is a business plan, a business planning that concerns the processes that will be associated with the changes,
when certain funds are invested,
when significant effort is invested to make these changes happen,
and, accordingly, we must always know at the very beginning what we want to get in the end.
Only in this case can we say that organizational development will be purposeful, not accidental.
If we know what the changes are for and for what purpose,
both inside and within the operating company.
As for the retraining strategy, the development strategy,
it is primarily aimed at changing beliefs, assessments and attitudes to work.
For these are the main subjective factors that are largely central
in terms of obtaining the desired result,
in terms of positioning the company in the market,
in terms of obtaining the desired business results, the desired commercial success.
In addition to the retraining strategy, aimed at changing beliefs, assessments and attitudes to work,
the central issue of organizational development is the problem of adaptation.
Adaptation to the changes that occur on the part of the market,
that occur on the part of the consumer-oriented companies.
If a company wants to meet the requirements,
if it wants to make a profit,
it must react very clearly and very subtly
and adapt to the changes that occur in the environment.
And it is the reaction to these changes that is, in fact, the main,
the main driving factor, the very motivation that is aimed at organizational development
for obtaining the final result, for obtaining the final goal.
It should be said that organizational development is a process that has its own structure,
which has its own systematization.
In this sense, all organizational development includes a certain organizational reconstruction.
There is one regular schedule, there is one regular structural division.
And if organizational development occurs, it can change as a company structure,
it can change as a system of duties, as a system of relationships,
as a system of any approaches that exist in the company.
And this is the reconstruction of the already existing system.
The existing system can be very successful.
But, nevertheless, this system cannot be unchanged,
at least simply because the external situation changes,
the internal situation, the situation in the company changes,
new people appear, new employees appear, new owners appear, new shareholders appear.
And, of course, all these changes, which are a complex process,
must be taken into account.
In addition, when we talk about the re-training strategy
necessary for organizational development,
a very important value in this case is the problem of support
and reinforcement of the changes that are taking place,
because all organizational development is a change in the relationship of people,
it is a change in the interaction of people, it is a change in the functioning of people.
There is no organizational development at all, there is no abstract organizational development.
Organizational development is always an action, it is always a feeling,
a relationship, a result, a function of those specific people,
of those specific employees who are present in the company
and who carry out, implement all the functioning that is carried out in the company.
We will understand organizational development in this broad context,
because the topic of our today's lesson is actually familiar,
what kind of changes can occur,
what kind of results of these changes can be present.
And, accordingly, we want to familiarize ourselves with those various forms
of organizational changes, organizational constructs that occur.
We can make many arguments in favor of the necessity of organizational changes,
but I think it is enough to refer to those people who are undisputed authorities
in modern concept management, in modern commerce, in modern business.
For example, Porter noted that competitors will immediately and necessarily introduce any company
that will stop improving and introducing innovations.
And there is only one way to maintain the achieved competitive advantages.
They must be constantly improved and move in the direction of more complex forms.
Porter means the obvious fact that not only small companies, not only newly emerging companies,
but also monsters, brands that exist on the market, must also constantly change,
because no matter what sector of the market you capture, no matter what part of the market you have,
in any case, the successes and results achieved once will not be constant.
There are competitors who claim the same market share.
There are new companies that introduce new products.
There is a struggle for the consumer, a struggle for demand,
there are all kinds of concepts related to the offer of any goods and services.
And there is a constant movement, constant change,
which in no case allows for any constant and unchanging forms.
And if we want to conform to the realities that exist on the market,
we must constantly respond to these requests.
There must be a constant feedback between the requests that occur
and the proposals that we as a company issue,
regardless of the existing merits, regardless of the past merits,
regardless of the plans that we build for the future,
regardless of the funds that are being invested.
However, the process of organizational changes is a rather complex process,
when it is quite difficult to predict the final result.
Let's look at three facts that are the generalization of events on the market,
which show that the organizational development of the companies is changing,
and that the output efficiency is very low,
in the sense that many things are changing, but not all of them are achieving the desired result.
As the studies conducted in the last decades of the last century have shown,
only a quarter of the projects on changing business processes were successful.
75% of the projects, three quarters,
which included funds, which involved time and effort,
did not lead not only to desired results,
but to significant deterioration in the companies where they were invested,
and three quarters of the companies were not able to achieve and even return the results that they had.
Change is always a risk.
It is a risk that either you achieve the result,
get economic profit,
or you will not lose what you had,
the invested funds will not be recovered,
and you will have to look for other ways and other opportunities for economic growth and economic development,
which are still necessary to be carried out.
Another figure indicates that usually companies,
as they grow,
which are present and occupy a certain segment of the market,
tend to merge to increase their share of influence,
to increase their presence,
to increase their segment of the market,
or more successful, larger companies,
which control larger areas of the market,
want to swallow smaller companies in order to get their resources,
their achievements, their results,
and in the end get the desired result.
It turns out that despite the fact that a large number of mergers and acquisitions are carried out annually,
only 25%, again, the same quarter,
will be successful in terms of the fact that only the costs of these mergers and acquisitions are paid.
Mergers and acquisitions are a process that requires significant time, financial, tax, customs efforts,
and all these processes are costly.
Only 25% of these costs are actually paid.
Again, the same three quarters of mergers and acquisitions,
at best, do not lead to the desired results,
but to the growth of certain economic indicators for which these mergers and acquisitions were carried out.
Again, I would like to emphasize that we are talking about a civilized business,
which is mainly held in the West,
or the civilized conditions of business in Russia,
and in this case we are talking about economic indicators of mergers and acquisitions,
without any other specific factors of this impact.
The next example I would like to give is related to the widespread introduction of information technologies
and information systems at large enterprises.
Today, a great importance, as you all know, is the use of computer technology,
computer processing, computer control,
and the automation of business processes that are carried out at enterprises.
Moreover, since these processes are quite costly,
only large organizations, large companies, large companies
are able to allocate free funds to carry out any other information interventions.
So, despite the fact that the number of funds that are constantly invested
in the process of introducing information technologies,
in the process of automated production management,
only 9%, even less than a quarter, of these funds are being spent.
Less than a tenth of the funds, less than a tenth of the projects,
of the entire huge number of projects for the introduction of information systems and technologies, are being spent.
That is, at least justify the funds that are invested in them.
And in this regard, another problem arises.
The funds are already very often being invested,
however, the managers see that the investment of these funds does not give the desired return,
there is disappointment, and 31%, that is, a third of all these projects,
are simply not fully satisfied.
The funds were invested, the expectations were high,
the organizational structures, organizational management systems were planned,
and the problem of introducing information systems is not a problem of a day, a week, a month,
it is a problem that can last a quarter, six months, a year.
And now, after a long period of time, the management is convinced
that the desired result is not what has not been achieved,
but there are deteriorations in the work,
there are changes in those or other problems that exist in the company,
and the management refuses to continue the introduction of information technologies
and strives to return to what was before.
This is not always possible, as we have already said,
because changes have the quality that if they have started,
they already destroy the existing structure,
they change those or other processes that occur in the organization,
and, in the end, we all work with living people,
and it is impossible to make a click, for example, on a project, on a photo shoot,
and return everything to the initial conditions,
in order to start from the beginning as if nothing had happened.
If we look at the actual results, at the economic indicators,
it turns out that a large number of organizational changes,
a large number of organizational development results are not fully achieved,
and, at best, a quarter of these projects lead to some result.
But this quarter leads to significant changes, significant shifts in the market,
and in this regard, those companies that brought the corresponding changes to the end,
those companies that made up the future plan of further development,
the plan of these changes, which introduced both strategic and tactical changes,
they achieve significant results and become leaders,
become leaders again for a certain time.
This is the leadership that requires constant support,
this is the leadership that requires constant investment of funds,
constant control of the availability of feedback,
and this is the leadership that is supported only by reacting to those changes,
those requests, those needs that are presented to the company both from the market
and based on those internal reasons for the development, existence and functioning of the company.
The next question that we would like to consider is what is good.
Changes are necessary, changes are being made, changes require certain costs,
changes do not always lead to the desired result,
but still, what are the successful models of changes,
or what models describe the process of organizational change and development,
and what models can serve as the basis on which we can build the process of change in each particular company.
It should be said right away that there are a lot of these models.
These models depend on what the company produces, on the services that it provides.
These models depend on different aspects of business,
these models are different in different industries, in different elements of business,
but the main goal, the main task of these models is to highlight the main elements
that should be paid attention to in order to build a certain strategy,
in order to create a strategic plan of development.
Organizational change models are closely related to the growth models, to the organizational change models.
We will consider, for example, the model proposed by Leon Danko,
and this model shows the connection between the process of business growth and time
that has passed since the moment of the company's emergence and development.
This model highlights five main periods,
and in each of these periods there are certain difficulties,
certain crisis points that need to be overcome,
because these are the critical moments, critical elements that arise in the development of each organization.
As for the original element of the model,
when the company is just emerging,
when the company begins to fight for the conquest of certain markets,
then this is a period of so-called hard work.
We really put in effort, we establish contacts, we establish connections,
we are persistently fighting for consumers,
because the company does not usually emerge in the open,
it emerges already with the presence of other companies,
and accordingly it needs to find its niche,
find its niche in that market, in that business that exists.
This is really hard work, it requires a regular working day,
it requires new unexpected solutions,
it requires a very fast response to the requests that occur,
it requires a very fast feedback.
As for the results of this hard work, they are unpredictable again.
Most companies can't withstand such a load,
they may not have enough funds,
they may have internal conflicts and contradictions,
they may have problems with their founders,
and accordingly they are less successful and do not stand out,
not only as a leader, but they stand out,
at least in the middle of the market,
they leave the market, they re-profile,
disintegrate, absorb, merge,
do something else,
but in fact these are the companies that could not withstand the competition
and were forced to re-profile their activities or stop their existence.
This is the majority of companies.
According to the research,
on average, about 85-90% of newly formed companies are unsuccessful.
But again, if this company arises,
of course, this company is small at first,
and accordingly, it is like a small business,
it has such a search activity,
where can I get involved,
where can I enter the already divided,
already formed economic market.
And only 10% or a little more of newly formed companies
find their place under the sun,
and conquer part of the market,
their economic segment,
and begin to develop further.
This is the next stage of the fall,
this is the stage of creating myths,
creating myths about how we started,
how it all was, what we achieved,
thanks to what we did it.
This is the period of the creation of corporate culture of the company,
corporate history of the company.
This is the period of creating corporate norms,
corporate regulations, corporate ethics.
And as for this period,
this is really a period of mythologization,
when we try to forget about those failures that inevitably occurred,
when we try to forget about those losses that occurred,
and like any ordinary living person,
we try to remember only positive things,
that were certain steps that led us from zero to the success that we have now achieved.
In principle, all the big companies that exist today
are companies that have been thrown around by various kinds of myths.
The same brands that are present on the market,
it is always a kind of a combination of myths related to one or another brand.
We may no longer remember how PepsiCo started,
how Coca-Cola started,
we may no longer remember how Adidas started,
how Ford cars started,
how Mercedes cars started,
but there is already a certain mythology for each company,
for each product, for each brand,
which carries the most distinctive,
the most successful,
the most significant features of the brand,
product, service, results.
This is due to the fact that one name of a brand
actually forms our relationship, our demand,
and our readiness to invest in the acquisition of a product of this particular company.
Although, as it often happens,
a competitor company can offer the worst product,
but this company is not yet known,
this company was created recently,
this company has not yet gained popularity on the market,
this company does not yet have a number of service centers.
And, accordingly, it is better for me to pay for an already known mythologized brand
than to risk and buy a product that may turn out to be successful,
or maybe not.
The creation of myths is a rather significant and important stage in the life of any company,
because this is where the dilemma arises.
A company can start to rest on laurels.
I already have a stable position on the market,
I already have a stable demand,
I already have a huge number of consumers,
and, accordingly, I can slightly weaken my activity,
because I already have certain achievements.
This is the so-called state of comfort.
The company experiences, the company owners, the company employees,
those who strive to come to work in this company
precisely in order to touch these myths,
to become part of these myths,
they are in a state of comfort,
and this is a very dangerous state.
As the analysis of business history shows,
as the analysis of different companies shows,
usually this state of comfort ends after 2-4 years,
when you have to pay attention to the fact that sales are falling,
the number of advertisements is increasing,
competitors that have emerged are dumping prices,
and, accordingly, they are taking away the markets that we have already conquered.
This comfort is what leads to stagnation,
what leads to stagnation,
and, accordingly, from this state of comfort,
you need to leave for further development,
for further organizational changes.
This will make it harder,
because the company has a history,
the company has experience,
the company has traditions that have proven its success,
but, on the other hand,
these conditions, these successes, these traditions
must be changed,
because they have changed as external conditions,
as external demand, as external consumers,
as well as internal conditions,
the conditions of working in a company,
as well as those or other material compensations and stimulations
that have ceased to reflect the realities of the market,
and a certain or other flow of frames arises.
The state of comfort is a very dangerous state,
because this state is deceitful,
it leads to calm,
and this calm leads to the fact that we are skipping,
we are losing the feeling of the market,
we are losing the feeling of the changes that are happening,
and this leads either to the liquidation of the company,
to the bankruptcy of the company,
to the re-profiling of the company,
or the next stage of hard work begins.
The Danko model is good because it shows
that the life of the company is always cyclical,
and after I have achieved indisputable success,
after I have overcome my myths,
I still have to go back to the very initial stage of hard work
in order to adapt to the changes that have occurred in the market,
in order to abandon the usual ways of working,
to change the production line,
to change the offered services,
and, accordingly, to analyze the feedback again,
to go back to the normal working day,
to look at the changes again,
the returns that we get,
in order to either develop further
and create new myths,
achieve new successes,
achieve new results,
or, as they say, the loser leaves again.
In fact, in this case,
no matter what level of development the company is at,
it should always follow the principle
of learning, doing new things,
and sharing its experience,
sharing its successes,
sharing its opportunities,
or you will be destroyed,
and, accordingly,
you will lose all the achievements very quickly.
It's a simple model,
but, nevertheless,
this model reflects a very important principle
in the growth of any organization.
Those achievements that we get,
indisputable achievements,
can often be a Trojan horse
in which the prospects of subsequent loss,
prospects of subsequent bankruptcy,
prospects of subsequent failures are laid.
Taking into account these events,
those models of change
that are based on the corresponding models of organization growth
and reflect these elements,
we will talk about this a little later,
when we move on to the models of organizational development
and organizational changes.
Naturally, this is one of the models,
the model of the DUNK.
As I said,
there are quite a lot of models of organization growth,
but today we will focus on the model of the Grainer.
The Grainer model is more structured,
more operational,
it highlights both the stages of organization development
and crises.
Those crises that are invariably associated
with situations of organizational growth
are those crises that need to be overcome,
because either we will overcome these crises
and each crisis will be a means for subsequent development,
or this crisis will lead to the fact
that the organization will cease to exist,
the organization will lose its already won positions
with all the consequences resulting from it.
As for the Grainer model,
it is also based on two axes.
First of all, the growth of the organization,
the achievements that the organization receives
as a result of its development,
and the time that is required for this growth.
The Grainer highlights five main phases of growth,
and as for these phases of growth,
each of them corresponds to its own crisis.
The first phase is the creative growth phase.
The organization enters the market,
it takes its place under the sun,
it searches for goods and services
that are in demand by consumers,
but which are not yet presented in the right quantity and form.
This is the stage of the hard work on the Danka model,
which we have already discussed.
If this stage is successfully overcome,
that is, we find what to produce,
what will be in demand,
if we understand what services will be in demand,
then the organization begins to develop,
the organization begins to make a profit,
and this is where the first crisis of leadership comes.
Usually, an organization is created by people,
and if the organization is small,
then in this situation all people work together,
all people make the same big contribution to the development of the organization.
The organization has achieved some results and is expanding.
New employees appear, new structures appear,
and now there is not necessarily a constant fight,
but an unanimous struggle between the founders,
between the founders,
between the owners of the company,
who contributed the most to the organization's development,
how should the profits and dividends be distributed between them,
and who will determine the path of the company's development.
Who will then make, control,
launch the plan of organizational development, organizational change,
because all people are different,
and there is not always agreement between them
in the ways and results that they want to achieve.
Since, as we have already said,
all organizational development, all organizational changes
require a significant contribution of free resources,
then the question of leadership is not in vain,
because depending on the leader's views,
depending on how much trust he uses,
how much authority he uses,
you can reasonably assume the degree of success
of the changes that will be made.
If this crisis of leadership is not overcome,
then it leads to the division of the company,
it leads to the loss of the won positions,
and, accordingly, in fact,
other smaller companies may arise,
separated from the original company,
which will begin their independent movement,
which will begin their independent efforts
in the same economic struggle.
If the crisis of leadership is overcome constructively,
when the owners, the managers,
when those people who were originally in the company
agree among themselves how to develop,
agree with you about the sphere of responsibility,
share their powers, delegate their powers,
delegate the sphere of responsibility that they have,
then the next stage of organizational growth,
the stage of directed growth, comes.
We agreed on a strategy,
we agreed on who is responsible for which element of this strategy,
we developed a plan,
we reached an agreement inside,
and we begin to develop the company further.
We see the end goals,
we know how to move towards these goals,
and we begin to invest funds for further movement.
Again, there are both positive and negative moments.
The positive moment is that
there is a constant control of feedback,
which is being developed in order to achieve
more economic results,
strengthen, improve its place in the market,
and expand the segment it occupies.
The negative side is that
any change is always risky.
It will be due to the fact that
we do not know whether we will get the desired result.
The statistics we talked about at the beginning,
that no more than a quarter of changes
can lead to a buy-in and development.
Therefore, the situation of directed growth
has its own crises.
The second crisis is coming.
The first was the crisis of leadership.
The second crisis is the crisis of autonomy.
The third crisis is the crisis of the company's success.
The problem is that
we are now the legislators of the market,
we are now being compared to the market,
we are now being guided by the market,
and in this connection we are able to lead
and make new proposals.
We are becoming a leader in the market,
and we are becoming a leader in the market.
We are losing the need to constantly look at our competitors.
We now have a certain resource
to make certain innovations,
to make certain proposals,
to offer new products and services.
Again, as for the crisis of autonomy,
we can really achieve new results
that will enable us to make new decisions.
We can achieve new results
that will help the company to grow.
But autonomy is good
because it is an innovation,
and any innovation will never give a guaranteed result.
And this autonomous swimming,
this autonomous swimming without looking back,
without looking around,
can lead to the loss of the company's reputation,
to the loss of economic potential,
to the loss of invested funds,
to the need to return to the existing results,
to the need to pay close attention
to the requests,
to the demands,
to the claims that arise
both from the external point of view
and from the internal point of view.
If this crisis is not overcome,
then the company can cease to exist,
it can be absorbed,
it can merge with someone,
it can be divided,
it can be fragmented
with all the external factors
that are involved in the process.
And this is a very good thing.
If this crisis is overcome,
and this autonomy has led to constructive,
positive results,
has led to the fact that we react
to the feedback that occurs,
then the company begins to grow and develop further,
and the opportunity to return to the existing results
comes.
And this is a very good thing.
And the next stage is coming.
The development of the company,
the growth of the company through delegating.
In this case, delegating concerns
delegating responsibility, delegating initiative.
The company is stable,
and the company can afford
to invest funds in some risky proposals.
As for risky proposals,
I can delegate the opportunity
to carry out
either risky events,
or to produce
either risky products.
And I can't be sure
that the invested funds
that are spent will be repaid.
But this is a very good thing.
But this delegating is necessary,
because the company must develop.
And in fact, in this situation,
the delegation of the authority of development occurs.
In the end, the company's manager
cannot constantly make strategic plans
about development.
You need to make some tests,
check where it turns out.
By making tests, we can make mistakes.
But the company is mature enough.
The company is stable enough
to allow itself to invest
in these innovations
and to receive both mistakes
and achievements.
Here comes the next crisis.
The crisis of control.
I give you relative freedom
in terms of your competence.
I give you freedom in terms of what to produce,
how to produce,
how to promote new products.
Because the company is developed
and there are some funds
that I can invest in development.
However, this delegation
cannot always try something.
If we will introduce brilliant ideas
that may be repaid,
it can very often lead to
a small amount of money being repaid.
And accordingly, we will take a large amount
of money that could be spent
on development, reorganization,
strengthening, changing,
or even PR actions.
And accordingly,
these will be the difficulties
that arise in terms of
economic growth.
Combining control and delegation
is a rather difficult situation.
Because I delegated responsibility to you,
I delegated the possibility of risk to you,
but at the same time I control
this risk to be within reasonable limits.
Who can tell where these limits are reasonable
and where they are not?
Everything is based on management,
everything is based on the experience of the manager,
everything is based on the knowledge
and competence of those people
who perform the controlling functions.
And control is necessary, of course.
But control can choke the initiatives
that are being implemented,
and control naturally contradicts
the delegated actions.
There are two possible ways.
Either it is an over-the-top,
a control that will actually
prevent the possible innovation
that will prevent the possible delegation
of the responsibility that is being taken
in terms of the introduction of new products.
On the other hand,
control can be constructive
and aimed at cutting off
really too risky options.
A too risky option can be
in a small number of cases
lead to very good economic results,
but usually,
miracles in business are not always possible,
usually it can lead to a loss of funds,
a loss of time, a loss of position
with all the consequences that come from it.
If control becomes all-encompassing,
then the organization becomes stagnant,
which can be accompanied by
the sense of comfort that we talked about earlier,
because we get stable results.
And that's good.
If control becomes constructive
and this crisis is overcome
at the optimal ratio of changes,
innovations,
and the ability to make
a decision
that will lead to good economic results,
the organization continues to grow.
Look, at every stage,
there is an opportunity
for either collapse or development.
There is always a balance,
and it is very difficult to find the golden mean.
To find it,
you need to have a sense of the market,
you need to have intuition,
you need to know and be able
to take risky actions,
but still so risky
that there is always an opportunity
to cover the gaps that arise.
If the crisis of control is constructively overcome,
the next stage of the organization's development comes,
which Greiner calls
the stage of growth through coordination.
As for coordination,
in this case,
the organization is large,
there are already a large number of units in the organization.
Naturally, each of these units
believes that it is the most important
for the company's functioning.
And if this particular unit
develops,
the results will improve.
I don't think that in this case
I'm saying something unexpected.
Every person who is successful
in their field of activity
believes that this particular field of activity
is the most important.
I can not deny it,
but I can not deny that
the organization's internal structure
and the coordination of departments
are very important.
There are many different units in the organization.
Each of these units
contributes significantly to the company's development.
If these units have proven their effectiveness,
if these units exist,
they perform a certain function
to get a certain structure,
a certain system of the company's functioning
to get results.
Naturally, each of these units
strives to take the responsibility
to get the funds for the purchase.
You need to go to the accounting department
or the finance department
to get the funds.
But the representatives of other structures
come to the accounting department
and prove the same thing about their departments.
And then there is a struggle
for the funds for development,
for amortization, for innovation,
for training.
And the coordination of requests
and interactions
and functions of the organizations
that exist is very important.
Unfortunately,
in this situation
there is a need for a judge
or an arbiter,
usually the head of the organization,
who decides which department,
which department will get the funds
at this time,
in this financial year,
in this quarter,
to get the results.
This often leads to resentment.
The head of the department
thinks that their assets are not valued,
that the representatives of another department
do not deserve to be more successful
and get more results.
And all this leads to conflicts,
to dissatisfaction, to internal tension,
to deterioration of the social-psychological climate
in the collective.
At this fourth stage of coordination growth,
the next fourth crisis arises,
the crisis of prohibitions.
If the head of the department
decides who will get the funds
and who will not,
that is, if he imposes a veto on the proposals
that are submitted by the representatives
of other departments,
then the decision can be subjective,
the circumstances can be predicted,
it can be momentary.
And in this regard,
it can have a negative impact
on the results of the company,
on the implemented product,
on the services provided,
on the working conditions,
the functioning that occurs every day
with all the consequences.
This can lead to sabotage,
but if they do not evaluate it,
why should I make any proposals?
The crisis of prohibitions can be overcome
by understanding,
declaring and developing
the implementation of a common vision
that exists in the organization
to combine the ideas,
approaches that exist in the organization
so that it is possible to show,
understand and accept the priorities
that exist at the moment
to develop investment plans,
to develop plans for the implementation
of those or other achievements
that will be adopted,
approved and agreed
in order to ensure
that the process of distribution
and investment of funds
does not lead to the reduction of bills,
to the overtightening of the blanket,
to the non-working situation.
This crisis of prohibitions,
as a result of any other crisis,
will either lead to a violation
of the system of organization
or will contribute to the development
of corporate vision, corporate mission,
corporate culture
and, accordingly,
to the pre-united organization of the collective
when everyone understands the essence,
the purpose, the purpose of their work,
the importance and significance of this work
for the work of the organization as a whole.
The next stage of the organization's development
will be observed,
which Greiner calls the growth through cooperation.
The coordination of the previous stage
was supposed to be the presence
of a certain external arbiter,
the head, the general director,
the deputy director,
who takes on the function
of the executive branch.
When it comes to cooperation,
in this case, of course,
no one can cancel the role of the head,
but nevertheless, it is about the possibility
of the heads of different departments,
different regions, different regional directions
to agree on the prospects of further development,
on the prospects of further growth,
because there is an understanding
that the work of each branch,
each department,
each department
is necessary for the unified system
of functioning of the organization as a whole,
for its further development,
for its economic growth,
for receiving dividends,
for receiving the desired results on the market.
Of course, this cooperation
can be accompanied by a crisis,
because all of us,
all the heads are subjective people,
and not always,
as it is called in friends,
there is an agreement.
But that crisis of trust,
that crisis of cooperation,
which in this case can arise,
is a crisis that will be resolved at a different level.
The organization has a long history.
The organization has a history of victories,
a history of defeats,
and it already has authorities within this organization.
And this crisis of cooperation
will significantly facilitate
the further development of the organization
and the change of this organization,
which will take place.
Very rarely this crisis of cooperation
can lead to negative results
related to what was received earlier,
what we talked about.
If a leader comes from another company,
which is not a carrier of corporate culture,
but a company that brings some new regulations,
then this is where the crisis of cooperation arises,
because there is a division
into old and new,
into our and not our.
And this crisis can lead to negative results,
when a well-recommended company,
which has passed all five stages of its growth,
can, due to the fact that it is a company
that has been in a bad situation,
can lead to very negative results,
which will be related to both
the loss of market positions
and the loss of reputation.
And, accordingly, this is also the same crisis
that needs to be overcome.
And, in fact, if the organization,
if the company has gone through all these stages of growth,
then this is an effective company,
this is a company that has proven its success,
this is a company that deservesly takes
the place in the market,
the segment of the market that it has.
This is another growth model,
and, accordingly, unlike the Danko model,
this is a more operational, more practical model,
which considers the steps and stages of growth.
And, according to the Greiner model,
it turns out that it is easy to control
the state, the stage of the organization's development,
which currently exists.
Of course, there are other models
that you can read in the literature
that is offered to you for this course.
But we will continue to look at
how the life cycle of the organization
is implemented.
Here are the models that characterize
the development of the organization and its growth.
At the same time,
all the growth of the organization implies
that the company has a certain life cycle
that it goes through.
It can go through crises,
it can go through stages,
but the life cycle of the organization
reflects the situation that any organization arises,
any organization grows, gains experience,
any organization reaches the zenith of its existence,
and any organization falls apart,
either ceases to exist
or turns into another organization.
As for the life cycle of the organization,
this model reflects
the obvious stages of the life cycle,
which must be known and understood
in order to build a strategy
of organizational changes,
because at each stage of this cycle
the organization will change,
and the strategy will be different.
As for any organization,
it starts with birth.
The organization arises to satisfy
the interests of a new buyer,
it arises due to the provision of new services,
it arises due to market requests.
The organization can arise only when
it is an economic formation
that arises depending on the economic requirements
and economic criteria that exist.
The main goal of the organization
at the stage of birth is survival,
as we have discussed earlier.
Any organization must fight
its place under the sun,
because only in this case
it has prospects.
And, of course, at this stage
faith in success and willingness to risk
that exist in people
who created this organization is very important.
At the stage of development,
the ability to work is very important.
This is the most difficult job
that we have discussed in the Danko model.
The next stage of the life of an organization
is childhood.
Since the organization is a living mechanism,
all its stages of development
coincide with the stages of a person's life.
Childhood is a dangerous stage,
because the organization already exists,
it has already established itself.
But now we need to take care
of creating its structure,
of forming its management,
of achieving its controllability,
of achieving its performance,
of achieving the organization
to realize the tasks and functions
that are required of it
according to the requirements of the market.
If at this stage
the management does not receive sufficient development,
then the organization's childhood
can become its collapse.
Because if we did not leave our childhood,
we did not receive further development.
The next life cycle of an organization
is the youth of the organization,
when there is a transition
from established complex management
from the period of its childhood,
and this management is still implemented
in a small team.
Any newly born organization
is a small organization.
At the stage of youth,
there is a transition from the established complex management
to the creation of a team of like-minded people.
The organization expands, new employees appear,
new staff, new competence models,
new functional requirements,
and, accordingly,
now it is necessary to engage in such forms of management
as financing, planning and forecasting.
The organization has reached the stage
of its accelerated active development.
Youth is the stage
when development is carried out as quickly as possible.
Now it is necessary to forecast,
develop a strategy for further development,
to prepare development plans,
tactical plans, operational plans,
and, accordingly,
a very important problem will be related to financing
all these stages of all this developed planning,
the implementation of new,
improved models of management,
which will meet the requirements
of the organization.
All this fits very well
in the model of Danko
with the stages of hard work,
creating a myth,
and in the stages of the development and growth of the Grainer organization,
which we talked about earlier.
If the stage of youth is successfully,
constructively completed,
then the stage of maturity comes,
the zenith of the organization's development,
when the indicators are balanced,
when the niche in the market is occupied,
when there are already
stable economic indicators,
the organization's leadership is satisfied,
developed, accepted,
realized, and carried out management strategies.
When strategic,
promising plans are agreed upon
and implemented,
and at the stage of maturity,
the most important element is the adaptation
of the organization to the changes of the external environment.
This is all that we talked about from the very beginning.
If the organization wants to develop further,
it must respond to the consumer's demand,
to the market's demand,
it must constantly pay attention
to the feedback
from the results it produces
and from the product
it puts on the market.
The stage of maturity is a long one,
which indicates the successful
and successful existence of the organization.
The stage of maturity is marked
by three stages.
The early maturity,
the intermediate maturity,
and the final maturity.
The early maturity is characterized
by a systematic growth of the organization.
The organization is at the stage of maturity,
but now it is not uncontrollably,
not by chance, not by chance,
but it grows systematically.
There is a growth program,
a development program.
We know when the number of staff
will be increased,
when the number of staff
will be sent to training,
and this is very important for the stage of maturity,
as the organization will exist
and develop only until there are new plans
that need to be achieved.
If there is a state of comfort,
it is a state of stagnation and stagnation,
which will lead to the destruction of the organization,
as we have already mentioned.
At the intermediate maturity stage,
there is a constant response,
a constant contact with the reality
that exists,
and there is a forecast
of how the organization
will change.
There is a balance between what I have,
between the requirements that are presented to me,
and this balance is the golden ratio
that exists.
As for the intermediate maturity,
this is the golden ratio stage.
We have already achieved the result,
but we have plans to achieve new results
for our further expansion.
The final stage is the final maturity,
and this is the period
that is characterized by the creation
of the image of the organization,
the creation of the brand of the organization,
the creation of the myths
that we talked about
when we analyzed the Danko model.
When we already create the history
of the success of this organization,
we do not pay attention to these difficulties,
we do not pay attention to the problems
that we face,
but we do not forget that this is a list
of our successes,
these are the stages of development,
the achievements that we get.
Achievement after achievement,
growth after growth,
development after development.
As for any organization,
the more myths are created,
the more brands and brands are present,
the stage of the aging of the organization comes.
Aging, which is characterized
by bureaucratization.
If the organization includes
a large number of units,
if a large number of staff
works in the organization,
then the organization must have
rules of management,
rules of interaction,
principles of movement of documents,
documents of turnover.
This is what is called bureaucracy.
Bureaucracy in a good sense of the word,
because bureaucracy is an organization
of management that is aimed
at making necessary documents,
necessary orders,
necessary commands more quickly
implemented and reached the end result.
As for bureaucratization,
it is always a stick with two ends.
At first, bureaucracy is useful,
it avoids unnecessary agreements,
it avoids unnecessary time loss,
but when bureaucracy is already established,
when bureaucracy is already,
let's say,
when bureaucracy is already a well-developed system,
it begins to support itself.
And in this case,
bureaucracy creates new instruments
to achieve the result.
In any large organization,
in order to get a certain offer
for development,
a lot of agreements are required.
Legal services,
economic services,
financial services,
security services.
On the one hand, this is necessary,
but on the other hand,
time is lost,
suddenness, surprise is lost.
All that is very important for innovation,
for obtaining and achieving market results.
Any large bureaucratic organization
is a slow and unsteady organization.
In this sense,
it, of course,
has its own problems,
where there is no agreement on documents,
where everything is done on personal contacts,
but we just said that 85-90% of newly created organizations
cease to exist.
If the organization was among those
10% that survived,
that exist,
then to a certain extent it was done
by the legal and bureaucratic procedure.
But the main task of the organization
at this time is to fight for survivability and stability.
We have received serious results,
but now these results
must not be preserved,
but developed further.
And if the organization is stable,
then there is a desire
not to lose what we have.
With all the consequences that we have mentioned earlier.
The aging of the organization has two outcomes.
Either the organization
will cease to exist,
it will not necessarily go bankrupt,
it will collapse,
there will be a merger,
there will be a change of activities,
but it will no longer be the original
unified organization with its own history and success.
Or there will be a period of revival,
when the organization,
which has gone from birth to maturity,
finds new spheres of development,
new spheres of application of its results.
Often this is due to the fact that
a new team of managers comes to the organization.
It is the top managers.
And here is the problem
with growth through the cooperation of the agrarian sector,
which we have just talked about.
Here, a crisis is possible.
Either this new team of top managers
will receive a mandate of trust with all the consequences
for the further development and growth of the organization,
or this team of managers will not receive trust.
And accordingly, the organization
is already at the stage of aging,
internal conflicts arise,
internal contradictions,
the attention to external objective indicators ceases to be paid,
external economic factors,
and the organization continues to disintegrate.
Or the organization ceases to exist
and there is a kind of a single system.
The task of top managers,
who have come to a successful company
at the stage of aging,
in order to revive the organization,
is to change the management structure,
to create a new leader.
It does not matter who it will be.
But it should be a new leader
who differs from the old one.
A leader is always a personification,
a person of the company, a person of its success,
a person of the results it will get.
This is what causes a shake in the organization.
Revival is that shake.
If this shake exists,
then the organization is proud
of all its successes,
of all its myths,
and starts to create new myths.
This is the life cycle of the organization,
which is based on the models of the organization's growth
that we discussed.
This life cycle of the organization
will be important for us
to consider how and at what stage
of this life cycle
the organization changes
and what undercurrents exist.
But we should pay attention
to the fact that every organization
is first of all a person.
I always say this idea
during our discussions.
Therefore, when we talk about the changes
in the organization,
we should not think about the life cycle of the organization,
but about the models of the organization's growth.
They are not abstract,
but they are implemented through the people
who work in the organization,
through the staff of the organization.
From the point of view of changes in the organization,
the staff of the organization and the people
involved in it can be divided into two categories.
The first category is the people who offer new
and non-standard solutions to the problems
that have been and are still arising.
These are people who creatively
approach the events
and look for new and original solutions.
Unfortunately,
the majority of such people
are people who are not
in the process of adapting to the existing
rules and standards.
It is clear to the human being.
What I am adapting to has already
proved its fairness many times.
It has its pros and cons.
And I think that the people
who are adapting to it
are people who are not
in the process of adapting to the existing
rules and standards.
I think that the people who are adapting
to it are people who are not
in the process of adapting to the existing
rules and standards.
What is better, to be an innovator or an adapter?
It is a difficult question.
It all depends on the circumstances
of the market.
Depending on the circumstances
that exist inside the company,
in each situation, you need both
an innovator and an adapter.
For example,
there was a leasing company.
It was a successful leasing company.
However, its success was largely
due to the fact that until 2005,
there were very few leasing companies
in Russia.
There was practically no competition.
Therefore, this company was one of
the leading positions in the Russian market
among a small number of other
leasing companies.
Accordingly, in this case,
there were developed ways of signing
contracts, a developed line of
car transportation, which was
successful, which was in demand,
which was in great demand among
legal entities.
However, as for the legal side,
there was a period of time
when the legal side was not
the same as the leasing side.
This year, a large number of foreign
leasing players appeared in the Russian
market, which naturally made a
very significant competition
with the leasing company
that we are talking about.
In this regard, the task of the
fight for the market was set.
It was not just about maintaining
the existing results, not just about
buying the existing profits, but
also about increasing these profits.
Different solutions were sought.
There were two main ways.
Some leasing companies thought that
the problem was that we needed to increase
the number of managers in the company
who would use the already developed
methods, the already recommended
forms of signing leasing contracts.
The more of them there were, the more
we would increase the market segment.
Unfortunately, this approach, this
direction of development did not give
the desired result.
For example, there was a company
that was very interested in buying
new leasing products.
For the simple reason that other
leasing companies, especially foreign
ones, were bringing new, more
profitable contracts, new damping
prices, new damping contracts.
Accordingly, they were interested in
conquering the new Russian market.
They offered a large number of leasing
products that turned out to be much
more competitive than the ones our
company had.
In this regard, the adapters, consisting
of those people who did not want to
change the existing forms of contracts,
existing terms of contracts, terms of
agreements, could not bring to the
positive results.
And the leasing company very quickly
lost not only the leading position,
but also the invested funds, the
client base, and gradually it began to
lose the reputation it had.
The situation changed after the
company came to the Russian market.
The company was in the process of
changing its name.
It was a company that understood that
the transfer of already approved methods
that were successful in 2005, 2006, and
even in early 2007, did not bring the
desired result.
New competitive products, new
leasing contracts, new leasing
contracts, new leasing contracts,
new leasing agreements, new leasing
programs, which will be competitive
compared to those products that
entered the market by foreign companies.
These were innovators who perfectly
understood that in order to only
return the early economic results,
it would take some time.
And this is what happened.
There was no other way, because the
old approaches carried out by the old
management, and even by adaptive
means, did not lead to the desired
result.
And after fundamentally new ideas
were proposed, responsibilities were
redistributed, new leasing contracts
were created, and the company was
able to return to the leading position.
New divisions were created, new
structures were created, the process of
training managers was changed, the
processes of rewarding managers were
changed, the motivational scheme of
managers was changed. By the end of the
year, the situation began to change, and
our leasing company gradually returned
to the leading position. Of course, it
could not fully play back the lost
positions, but nevertheless, the results
that were obtained allowed the company
to exist further, and not to announce
bankruptcy, which was the point.
Here is the situation. If the innovators
came and started to carry out this
policy right away, maybe the results
would be different. It is difficult to say,
because only after the management
of the company was convinced of the
inadequacy, the inefficiency of the
previously used means, it was forced to
go for new significant investment
and to replace the entire top management.
This is, again, a painful process,
and it is not easy to explain.
However, in this case, we have achieved
the results. Therefore, when we talk about
innovators and adapters, the main
criterion here is the timing of these
changes, the presence of a plan of
changes, the coordination of those
indicators, which cannot be lowered,
and the coordination of methods and
means of investing the results that
will take place.